Because this is not necessarily a course
on any given technology, I tried to, but
we have to use some kinda technology,
right?
Because even, as Mark knows, not using
your framework is a choice in and
of itself [LAUGH].
So I tried to play to at least
some kinda common denominators.
The, one hill that I will die on,
is I'm just gonna use TypeScript
the entire time, right?
I'm not going back to writing JavaScript.
I'm not doing it, you can't make me.
Every time I try to put together
a more beginner-friendly course and
I have to write JavaScript,
it fills me with existential dread.
So this is my excuse
not to have to do that.
So it will be TypeScript, that said.
If you're, I've never written TypeScript
before, you can get away with that, right?
There's, this is not a course
on TypeScript, this is there's
shockingly little TypeScript ceremony,
but for my own sanity.
And then, this is actually the next slide,
is slightly a lie, but it's mostly true.
When it came down to what framework to
use, you know it, you might love it.
Might not, but you probably know it,
which is React.
That said, to prove a point,
when we get to component testing and
end testing, and
unit testing is really framework agnostic.
I did on occasion sample, put in some
Svelte applications just to show you,
this doesn't really matter, right?
And so some of them,
I've rebuilt the application and
it's felt the test is two
characters different, right?
In the way that you mount the component.
And when it comes down to just driving
a browser, it literally does not matter.
And you would have to look at the code
to even figure out what framework
I'm using, right?
So some amount of React but a gain, and
we'll go through some little gotchas with
React but, because there's more
gotchas with React than other things.
And we'll kinda talk about that.
But again, you do not need to necessarily
be an expert in React to do a.
There's a lot of times there are examples
in other frameworks as well,
as long as other frameworks mean spelt,
let's see, one that I use every day.
And nobody wants to watch me test the view
component cuz I've never written view in
production.
And then some other just testing tools and
like I said,
most of these are somewhat agnostic,
testing library.
And if you've never used
testing library before,
there are various flavors
of testing library.
There's react testing library,
you can guess what framework that tests.
There is testing library, but under the
hood there is just dom testing library.
Which just basically renders an HTML
component to either JS dom or
happy dom and
lets you fire events at it, right?
And so completely agnostic other than
the act of rendering a component,
though that is specific
to a given framework.
But you could theoretically
just like a pen
child to document dot body and
test as well.
Let's go all the way
down to the lower right,
left depends on which way
you're looking at the screen.
And play right which is
a relatively new-ish tool for
spinning up many a browser.
Whether that's WebKit or Chromium or Edge,
also known as Chromium, or Firefox.
And actually just spinning
up the application and
kicking the tires on it across
all of these different browsers.
It is made by the team who originally
worked on the protocols for
Chrome to kinda drive it and control it.
And then re-implemented those
protocols across WebKit and Firefox so
you can drive of those as well.
This is what we are using nowadays, and I
say that with a little bit of hesitation.
Because right now my code base is
half between Cypress and Playwright.
But it is incredibly powerful, so
we'll take a look at that in
the second half of our time together.
In the middle, we have Vitest, Vitest?
Is it Vite, is it Vite,
I don't know, I say Vite.
Which works with Vite
as opposed to Webpack.
That said, it is, mostly,
99% API compliant with Jest, right?
Except that it also works with Vue and
Svelte and other things as well.
Despite the fact that we're using Vitest,
when we grab extensions and
third party libraries.
You'll notice that a lot of times
we just grab the just ones and
drop them in and
everything works fine on occasion, right?
I'll even have configuration files for
Jest,
if you wanna run Jest against
some of these things as well.
The biggest difference is that you will
import from Vitest instead of Jest.
But generally speaking,
they are API compliant except one is
nicer to ES modules than the other.
And now you've learned what my biases are.
Cool, all right, so finally, kinda,
as we wrap up our fun intro together.
Like I said, we're gonna use
TypeScript for everything, and
we're gonna use it in strict mode.
Again, Github Actions, you might use
Travis, you might use circle CI,
you might even have
the pleasure of using Jenkins.
Ideally, some of the stuff,
yeah, we're all chuckling.
ideally, all this stuff should apply,
but by definition,
I can remain relatively
confident that most everyone
has access to GitHub Actions,
which is what I use as well.
And like I said, in most of our
conversations, rather than be, this is
the way that you should do it, it's gonna
be this is the way you should do it.
Versus, this is how it happens in reality,
and this is how [LAUGH] you should do it
when you have a deadline next week, right?
Or there is an outage, right?
And, or you've inherited a codebase
with no test coverage to speak of.
Let's bend the rules a little
bit to be productive